And with that, the stranger realized that he was being drawn, like it or not, into the conversation and, reluctantly, he stepped out of the shadows, detaching from them like a patch of darkness. No, he agreed. I am not. But I take Mrs. Owens’s point.
Josiah Worthington said, You do, Silas?
I do. For good or for evil—and I firmly believe that it is for good—Mrs. Owens and her husband have taken this child under their protection. It is going to take more than just a couple of good-hearted souls to raise this child. It will, said Silas, take a graveyard.
And what of food, and the rest of it?
I can leave the graveyard and return. I can bring him food, said Silas.
That’s all very well you saying that, said Mother Slaughter. But you comes and you goes and nobody keeps track of you. If you went off for a week, the boy could die.
You are a wise woman, said Silas. I see why they speak so highly of you. He couldn’t push the minds of the dead as he could the living, but he could use all the tools of flattery and persuasion he possessed, for the dead are not immune to either. Then he came to a decision. Very well. If Mr. and Mrs. Owens will be his parents, I shall be his guardian. I shall remain here, and if I need to leave I shall ensure that someone takes my place, bringing the child food and looking after him. We can use the crypt of the chapel, he added.
But, expostulated Josiah Worthington. But. A human child. A living child. I mean. I mean, I mean. This is a graveyard, not a nursery, blast it.
Exactly, said Silas, nodding. A very good point, Sir Josiah. I couldn’t have put it better myself. And for that reason, if for no other, it is vital that the child be raised with as little disruption as possible to the, if you’ll forgive the expression, the life of the graveyard. With that he strolled over to Mrs. Owens, and he looked down at the infant asleep in her arms. He raised an eyebrow. Does he have a name, Mrs. Owens?
Not that his mother told me, she said.
Well, then, said Silas. His old name won’t be of much use to him now, anyway. There are those out there who mean him harm. Suppose we pick a name for him, eh?
Caius Pompeius stepped over and eyed the child. He looks a little like my proconsul, Marcus. We could call him Marcus.
Josiah Worthington said, He looks more like my head gardener, Stebbins. Not that I’m suggesting Stebbins as a name. The man drank like a fish.
He looks like my nephew Harry, said Mother Slaughter, and it seemed then as if the whole graveyard was about to join in, each inhabitant offering his or her own comparisons between the infant and someone long forgotten, when Mrs. Owens broke in.
He looks like nobody but himself, said Mrs. Owens, firmly. He looks like nobody.
Then Nobody it is, said Silas. Nobody Owens.
It was then that, as if responding to the name, the child opened its eyes wide in wakefulness. It stared around it, taking in the faces of the dead, and the mist, and the moon. Then it looked at Silas. Its gaze did not flinch. It looked grave.
And what kind of a name is Nobody? asked Mother Slaughter, scandalized.
His name. And a good name, Silas told her. It will help to keep him safe.
I don’t want trouble, said Josiah Worthington. The infant looked up at him and then, hungry or tired or simply missing his home, his family, his world, he screwed up his tiny face and began to cry.
Leave us, said Caius Pompeius to Mrs. Owens. We will discuss this further without you.